---
layout: default
title: File naming
nav_order: 2
parent: Data Reuse
has_children: false
---

# File naming

A file name should be unique, consistent and descriptive. This allows for increased visibility and discoverability and can be used to easily classify and sort files. Remember, a file name is the primary identifier to the file and its contents.  
### Do’s and Don’ts of file naming:
#### Do’s: 
- Make use of file naming tools for bulk naming such as Ant Renamer, RenameIT or Rename4Mac.
- Create descriptive, meaningful, easily understood names no less than 12-14 characters. 
- Use identifiers to make it easier to classify types of files i.e. Int1 (interview 1) 
- When combining elements in file name, use common special letter case patterns such as Kebab-case, CamelCase, or Snake_case, preferably use hyphens (-) or underscores (_)
- Make sure the 3-letter file format extension is present at the end of the name (e.g. .doc, .xls, .mov, .tif)
- If applicable, include versioning within file names
- For dates use the  ISO 8601  standard: YYYY-MM-DD and place at the end of the file number UNLESS you need to organise your files chronologically. 
- For experimental data files, consider using the project/experiment name and conditions in abbreviations 
- Add a README file in your top directory which details your naming convention, directory structure and abbreviations
#### Don’ts:
- Avoid using capital letter to separate words and use underscores or hyphens instead
- Avoid naming files/folders with individual persons names as it impedes handover and data sharing. 
- Avoid long names
- Avoid using spaces, dots, commas and special characters (e.g. ~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) ` ; < > ? , [ ] { } ‘ “)
- Avoid repetition for ex. Directory name Electron_Microscopy_Images, then you don’t need to name the files ELN_MI_Img_20200101.img 

#### Examples:
- Stanford Libraries guidance on file naming is a great place to start: [https://library.stanford.edu/research/data-management-services/data-best-practices/best-practices-file-naming](https://library.stanford.edu/research/data-management-services/data-best-practices/best-practices-file-naming)
- Dryad example [http://datadryad.com/pages/reusabilityBestPractices](http://datadryad.com/pages/reusabilityBestPractices)
       - 1900-2000_sasquatch_migration_coordinates.csv
       - Smith-fMRI-neural-response-to-cupcakes-vs-vegetables.nii.gz
       - 2015-SimulationOfTropicalFrogEvolution.R
